In the United States, Black Americans experience disproportionately negative outcomes in domains as varied as wealth, employment, and health (1). However, efforts to obtain support for the policies necessary to tackle these disparities have had limited success, underscoring a critical need for effective interventions to change behavior. On page 1394 of this issue, Brown et al. (2) report that highlighting racial health disparities was more likely to prompt social media engagement and policy support compared with highlighting disparities in economic measures or belongingness (the feeling of being an accepted member of a group). The authors demonstrated that health disparities are catalyzing because health inequities contravene moral values that should never be violated and, consequently, evoke feelings of injustice. The premise is intriguing and could be used to increase policy support for reducing racial gaps.
Myriad factors contribute to racial disparities in health outcomes at both the interpersonal and structural levels. Interpersonally, clinicians often hold racial biases that influence clinical decision-making (e.g., chemotherapy or screening recommendations) (3) and behaviors (e.g., attempts at relationship building) (4). Structurally, policies can negatively affect Black Americans’ access to and quality of health care (e.g., unequal allocation of resources, such as vaccines, and limited clinic locations and hours) (5). Policies that are ostensibly unrelated to health care also have widespread effects on health outcomes. For instance, economic and governmental institutions that restrict wealth for racially minoritized populations (e.g., charging higher interest rates when purchasing a home) can shape Black Americans’ access to health care and transportation, insurance costs, and financial resources available for medical treatments (6).
Despite the persistence of health inequities, politicians, policy-makers, and the general public in the US have shown little interest in taking action to effectively mitigate these disparities and may actively work to maintain these gaps (e.g., continued efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and restrict Medicaid funding) (7). In their work, Brown et al. randomly assigned Americans to view information (messages and infographics) about racial disparities in health, economic factors, or belongingness in either experimental (online) or social media 
Given these findings, one temptation may be to frame all racial disparities in the context of their impact on health. Yet, decades of research, billions of dollars in funding, and the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities have been dedicated to reducing disparities in health outcomes. Although many outcomes have improved (e.g., disparities in cancer rates) (3), many disparities remain.
Brown et al.’s findings suggest that perceiving injustice is key for inspiring support for policies designed to ameliorate disparities. People are motivated to believe that they live in a just society, where individuals get what they deserve, and that society has created institutions that afford everyone fundamental human rights (8). However, perceiving injustice may not always prompt remediation; people may manage perceptions of injustice by deepening their commitment to systems that create and reinforce disparities at the expense of minoritized groups (8). For instance, a sample of mostly white Americans reported less support for economic- and health-related policies to manage COVID-19 when the policies explicitly mentioned that Black individuals would benefit (9).
People are also sensitive to social group membership and prefer to allocate resources to “people like me” at the expense of “people not like me” (10). For example, when faced with the notion that their racial group may lose social status, white Americans were more likely to endorse policies that favored their own group at the expense of other racial groups (11). White Americans may also dehumanize Black Americans so that the inequities are no longer perceived as unjust (12). To have the most impact, work aimed at implementing the findings from Brown et al. may need to consider that people are motivated to maintain the status quo and may react against perceived injustice by doubling down on the inequities instead of reducing them.
Brown et al. examined how people respond once confronted with injustice; however, people might be content to simply avoid confronting injustice altogether. For instance, white Americans would rather avoid racialized information than acknowledge racial advantages and disadvantages (13). Indeed, people prefer to ignore, derogate, or counterargue messages that challenge their current attitudes and behaviors rather than be persuaded by them (14). Unless someone is already engaging in egalitarian actions or has positive attitudes toward reducing racial gaps in outcomes, then they may be more likely to ignore any message about racial disparities rather than acting to remedy them.
It is also important to consider the perspective of audiences who are directly implicated by messages describing disparities. For example, receiving information that highlights racial disparities in HIV rates reduces Black Americans’ attention to the information and lowers their trust in the information provider because such information raises concerns about being judged by one’s racial identity (15). Thus, if interventions do not carefully consider the experiences that audiences are bringing with them, they may evoke disengagement and ironically exacerbate the problems that they are attempting to remedy.
Racial disparities in the US persist across many important domains. Brown et al. have taken up the call to address these disparities by designing and implementing a series of thought-provoking studies that highlight perceived injustice as a lever to motivate action on racial gaps. To foster policy support most successfully, researchers must take into account how audiences may respond to perceiving injustice. To build on Brown et al.’s galvanizing work, scholars could develop complementary interventions that address barriers that might arise when encountering messages highlighting injustice (e.g., people not wanting to engage with the messages or having little empathy for groups implicated by these disparities). This will allow the difficult but incredibly important work of reducing racial gaps to continue.
Acknowledgments

The authors thank D. Albarracin, S. Dal Cin, D. Dunning, D. Hertz, P. Ellsworth, E. Kross, N. Lewis, S. McClelland, H. Mehlman, M. Meyer, M. Rodriguez, R. Smallman, J. Smith, K. Sonneville, K. Takahashi, and L. White for feedback.